[ML] show expected model outputs for each nlp task type (#2112)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/nlp/ml-nlp-model-ref.asciidoc

* https://huggingface.co/roberta-large
* https://huggingface.co/microsoft/mpnet-base

[discrete]
=== Fill mask expected model output

Fill mask is a specific kind of token classification. Usually the base training task of many transformer models.

For the Elastic stack's fill mask NLP task to understand the model output, it must have a specific format. 

> It needs to be <number of sequences inferred> by <number of tokens in sequence> by <token score for all tokens in vocabulary>.

Reviewer: > It needs to be <number of sequences inferred> by <number of tokens in sequence> by <token score for all tokens in vocabulary>.

I think this sentence should be joined to the previous paragraph. I also think there's some words/concepts missing here. For example: "It is a nested set of {arrays? objects? tuples?} for each inferred sequence, where every token in every sequence has token scores for each token in the vocabulary.

Author: The reader shouldn't be reading this unless they understand machine learning model outputs and are wondering how to provide their own to conform to our pipeline. 

I am not sure we need to be super vocab friendly here.

Technically, it's nested sets of float tensors of specific dimension related to the input and configuration. I will see what other frameworks do for their output pipeline specification documentation.

* https://huggingface.co/roberta-large
* https://huggingface.co/microsoft/mpnet-base

[discrete]
=== Fill mask expected model output

Fill mask is a specific kind of token classification; it is the base training task of many transformer models.

For the Elastic stack's fill mask NLP task to understand the model output, it must have a specific format. It needs to
be a float tensor with `shape(<number of sequences>, <number of tokens>, <vocab size>)`. 

Here is an example with a single sequence `"The capital of [MASK] is Paris"` and with vocabulary
`["The", "capital", "of", "is", "Paris", "France", "[MASK]"]`.

Should output:

[source]
----
 [
   [
     [ 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 ], // The
     [ 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 ], // capital
     [ 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 ], // of
     [ 0.01, 0.01, 0.3, 0.01, 0.2, 1.2, 0.1 ], // [MASK]
     [ 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 ], // is
     [ 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0 ] // Paris
   ] 
]
----

> The predicted value here for `[MASK]` is obviously `"France"` with a score of 1.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The predicted value here for `[MASK]` is `"France"` with a score of 1.2.
```

Author: `obviously` too snarky? :D

Reviewer: Yeah, don't want people to feel bad if like me they take a moment to see which vocabulary item has the highest score

* https://huggingface.co/elastic/distilbert-base-cased-finetuned-conll03-english
* https://huggingface.co/philschmid/distilroberta-base-ner-conll2003

[discrete]
=== Named entity recognition expected model output

Named entity recognition is a specific token classification task. Each token in the sequence is scored related to 
a specific set of classification labels. For the Elastic Stack, we use Inside-Outside-Beginning (IOB) tagging. Additionally,
 only the following classification labels are supported: "o", "b_misc", "i_misc", "b_per", "i_per", "b_org", "i_org", "b_loc", "i_loc".

The `"o"` entity label indicates that the current token is outside any entity.
`"b"` indicates the beginning of an entity.
`"misc"` is a miscellaneous entity.
`"loc"` is a location.
`"per"` is a person.
`"org"` is an organization.

> The response format of the model must be <number of sequences inferred> by <number of tokens in sequence> by <classification score for each entity for that token>.

Reviewer: > The response format of the model must be <number of sequences inferred> by <number of tokens in sequence> by <classification score for each entity for that token>.

Per my suggestion for the previous section, I suggest using something like this instead: "It is a nested set of {arrays? objects? tuples?} for each inferred sequence, where every token in every sequence has classification scores for each entity label."

> An example of this is where the order of the entity classification labels is: .

Reviewer: I think the intro from the previous example was a better lead-in:
```suggestion
Here is an example with a single sequence `"Waldo is in Paris"`:
```

* https://huggingface.co/elastic/distilbert-base-cased-finetuned-conll03-english
* https://huggingface.co/philschmid/distilroberta-base-ner-conll2003

[discrete]
=== Named entity recognition expected model output

Named entity recognition is a specific token classification task. Each token in the sequence is scored related to 
a specific set of classification labels. For the Elastic Stack, we use Inside-Outside-Beginning (IOB) tagging. Additionally,
 only the following classification labels are supported: "O", "B_MISC", "I_MISC", "B_PER", "I_PER", "B_ORG", "I_ORG", "B_LOC", "I_LOC".

The `"O"` entity label indicates that the current token is outside any entity.
`"I"` indicates that the token is inside an entity.
`"B"` indicates the beginning of an entity.
`"MISC"` is a miscellaneous entity.
`"LOC"` is a location.
`"PER"` is a person.
`"ORG"` is an organization.

> The response format must be a float tensor with `shape(<number of sequences>, <number of tokens>, <num classification labels>)`.

Reviewer: To match the other two, I think "num" should be "number":
```suggestion
The response format must be a float tensor with `shape(<number of sequences>, <number of tokens>, <number of classification labels>)`.
```

* https://huggingface.co/castorini/bpr-nq-ctx-encoder
* https://huggingface.co/castorini/bpr-nq-question-encoder

[discrete]
=== Text embedding expected model output

Text embedding allows for semantic embedding of text for dense information retrieval. 

> The required format here is that the model outputs the specific embedding directly without any additional pooling. 

Reviewer: To align with the wording in the other sections:
```suggestion
The output of the model must be the specific embedding directly without any additional pooling. 
```

* https://huggingface.co/nateraw/bert-base-uncased-emotion
* https://huggingface.co/cardiffnlp/twitter-roberta-base-sentiment

[discrete]
=== Text classification expected model output

> With text classification, the entire sequence is classified. An example of this is sentiment analysis.

Reviewer: IMO the example here doesn't add a lot of value, but if we keep it, I recommend merging the sentences like this:
```suggestion
With text classification (for example, in tasks like sentiment analysis), the entire sequence is classified.
```

> The output of the model must be <number of sequences> <classification score of each sequence>.

Reviewer: > The output of the model must be <number of sequences> <classification score of each sequence>.

Per my suggestion for the previous sections, I suggest using something like this instead: "It is a nested set of {arrays? objects? tuples?} for each inferred sequence, where every sequence has classification scores for each entity label."

> Example for a binary classification model of happy, sad:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example with two sequences for a binary classification model of "happy" and "sad":
```

* https://huggingface.co/nateraw/bert-base-uncased-emotion
* https://huggingface.co/cardiffnlp/twitter-roberta-base-sentiment

[discrete]
=== Text classification expected model output

With text classification (for example, in tasks like sentiment analysis), the entire sequence is classified. The output of

> the model must be a float tensor with `shape(<number of sequences>, <num classification labels>)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the model must be a float tensor with `shape(<number of sequences>, <number of classification labels>)`.
```

* https://huggingface.co/valhalla/distilbart-mnli-12-6
* https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/nli-distilroberta-base
* https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/nli-roberta-base

[discrete]
=== Zero-shot text classification expected model output

Zero-shot text classification allows text to be classified for arbitrary labels not necessarily part of the original
training. Each sequence is combined with the label given some hypothesis template. The model then scores each of these
combinations according to `[entailment, neutral, contradiction]`. The output of the model must be a float tensor 

> with `shape(<number of sequences>, <number of labels>, <3>)`.

Reviewer: If the angular brackets are intended to denote variable values and 3 is not a variable, I think we should remove the brackets:
```suggestion
with `shape(<number of sequences>, <number of labels>, 3)`.
```

* https://huggingface.co/valhalla/distilbart-mnli-12-6
* https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/nli-distilroberta-base
* https://huggingface.co/cross-encoder/nli-roberta-base

[discrete]
=== Zero-shot text classification expected model output

Zero-shot text classification allows text to be classified for arbitrary labels not necessarily part of the original
training. Each sequence is combined with the label given some hypothesis template. The model then scores each of these
combinations according to `[entailment, neutral, contradiction]`

> The required output of the model is <number of sequences> <number of labels> <classification for label>.

Reviewer: > The required output of the model is <number of sequences> <number of labels> <classification for label>.

Per my suggestion for the previous sections, I suggest using something like this instead: "The required output of the model is a nested set of {arrays? objects? tuples?} for each inferred sequence, where every sequence has "entailment", "neutral", and "contradiction" classification scores for each (entity?) label."

> Classifying a single sequence against 4 labels would look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example with a single sequence classified against 4 labels:
```
